Ratatouille is a traditional Provençale stewed vegetable dish that can
be served as a meal on its own, accompanied by rice, potatoes or French
bread, or as a side dish. It can be served hot or cold.

Recipe serves 3-4. Increase quantities to serve more, and add different
vegetables as desired for variation.

Ingredients

    * Olive oil
    * 1 onion
    * 1 clove garlic, or to taste
    * 1 aubergine
    * 1 green, red, yellow or a combination, bell pepper
    * 2 zucchini (courgettes) (cucumber also works well)
    * 6 medium tomatoes, ripe (juicy), peeled and seeded
    * salt and pepper to taste
    * Herbes de Provence to taste, (optional), or
    * 1 small bunch basil, chiffonéd (optional)

Directions

1.  Put a large casserole on the stove on medium heat.

2.  When the casserole is hot, add enough olive oil to just cover
    the bottom.

3.  Cut the zucchini and aubergine into ½ inch slices. Then cut these
    into rectangles of about 3 by 1 inches. Add to the casserole. [Note 1]

4.  Sauté the slices until light brown

5.  Chop the onions and garlic.

6.  Cut the green pepper into strips or dice, as preferred. [Note 1]

7.  Add the onions and peppers and cook slowly for about 10 minutes
    until tender but not brown. Stir in the garlic. [Note 2]

8.  Peel and seed the tomatoes. Dice them or cut them into quarters,
    add to the casserole.

9.  Five minutes later, check to see if the tomatoes have made enough
    juice to almost cover the vegetables - if so, perfect. If not,
    add water as needed (not too much).

10. Add salt, pepper and Herbes de Provence to taste. In general, 1 tsp
    of salt, 1/2 tsp of pepper and 1 tbsp of the herbs will suffice.

11. Cover the casserole and let simmer on low heat until the vegetables
    are tender but still intact, 10 to 20 minutes, or to taste.

12. Remove the lid, raise the heat a little and cook uncovered for another
    15 minutes, basting frequently until the liquids have mostly
    evaporated, leaving a small amount of juice and olive oil. [Note 3]

N.B. It is important that each of the vegetables retain its own shape
and character. Most authorities agree that ratatouille should not be a
mush. Avoid overcooking. Sautéing the aubergine and courgettes initially
helps retain their shape and improves their flavour, but is optional. Of
course if you personally prefer a more homogeneous dish, it may be cooked
for 45 minutes to 1 hour, but this is unusual.

Notes

1.  When ratatouille is used as a filling for savoury crêpes or to fill
    an omelette, the pieces are sometimes cut smaller.
2.  While most recipes do not brown the onions, if you like them browned,
    brown them. Food traditions have always been subject to individual
    interpretation.
3.  Unnecessary moisture can also be reduced by straining the liquid
    into a pan, reducing it over heat, then returning the reduced liquid
    to the casserole.
