Melanzane Parmigiana was originally a Sicilian dish called Parmiciana di
melenzane, parmiciana being the slats of a wooden shutter which resemble
the layering of the slices of aubergine in the dish. In the form in which
it is now known worldwide, it is generally an oven baked dish consisting
of aubergine, Parmesan cheese, mozzarella and tomato sauce.

Ingredients

    * 3 or 4 big aubergines
    * tomato sauce
    * about 200 or 300 grams of mozzarella cheese, sliced
    * grated Parmesan cheese
    * flour
    * oil to fry
    * salt

Optional

    * fresh basil
    * 2 boiled eggs

Procedure

1.  Wash aubergines and cut them in slices about 1-1.5 cm thick. Aubergine
    has a bitter taste and it should be prepared in the following way
    to remove this:
        1.  Salt each slice on both sides and put them on a big plate.
        2.  When all the slices are covered with salt, cover them with
            another plate, pressing a bit.
        3.  Let them rest for 20-30 minutes or more, time permitting
            (up to 2 hours).
        4.  Then wash the slices under running water and let them dry
            a while.
        5.  Alternatively, place salted aubergine slices in a large
            strainer and place a weight (e.g., a smaller pot of water)
            on top to help squeeze out the water.

2.  Dust the slices with flour and/or bread crumbs and fry them. Do not
    overcook, as they will spend some time in the oven later.

3.  Take a pan for the oven and make a layer with aubergine slices, then
    one with the tomato sauce, then one with some slices of mozzarella
    and Parmesan cheese. Some cooks add fresh basil leaves and cooked
    egg slices.

4.  Make as many layers as you wish, but 3 or 4 should be enough. Be
    sure the last one to be completely full of Parmesan cheese, that
    will make a nice crust when cooked.

5.  Now everything is finished, put the pan in the oven at 180°C (350°F)
    for about 20-30 minutes.

Notes

In La Cucina tradizionale siciliana by Anna Pomar, no breadcrumbs
are used.
